#My research question: Where are agricultural workers in California affected the most by high PM2.5 daily averaged concentrations?

#INTRO/IMPORTANCE: California Agricultural Workers that spend the majority of their time working outdoors are extremely vulnerable to wildfire pollution, particularly PM2.5. In the recent year, California agricultural workers have been hit extra hard, having to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic and the devastating 2020 wildfire season.  Some workers reported working as much as 54 hours each week in 2020. With such a high number of workers spending the majority of time outdoors, agricultural workers are especially vulnerable to the health effects of high PM2.5 exposure. Section 5141.1 is perhaps the most protective policy enacted for the safety of California agricultural workers. This law puts the burden on employers to protect workers by determining the total PM2.5 air quality index (AQI). This can be done by checking numerous governmental air monitoring websites such as the EPA’s AirNow or U.S Forest Service. The employer also has the option to directly monitor PM2.5 on the worksite by installing a station monitor. When the AQI is above 150, farm employers are required to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) that is approved by US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) such as N-95 respirators.  When the PM2.5 AQI is above 500, workers are obligated to wear the provided respirator. Respirators such as N-95 masks are effective at protecting lungs against wildfire smoke but must be worn properly. Improper use of N-95 respirators decreases the effectiveness to protect against PM2.5. According to Section 5141.1, employers must communicate to workers the health effects of wildfire smoke, that they have a right to obtain medical treatment without fear of reprisal, and how employees can obtain the current Air Quality Index (AQI) for PM2.5.
	
#This research project is important to me because many agricultural workers are undocumented, an estimated amount of 56%, (U.S. Department of Labor, 2015-16) and work at least 40-hour work weeks (USDA, 2019). Because of this, agricultural workers may be less likely to report harmful air quality working conditions or report their employers due to fear of loss of wages or retaliation. It is important to examine both agricultural worker population distribution and averaged daily PM2.5 concentrations to determine which agricultural workers are affected the most. With less protective policies and increasing wildfires, agricultural workers face an increased risk of harmful PM2.5 exposure. 

#DATA: California, in particular, experiences harmful wildfire seasons that are increasing in length due to climate change. The focus of this research project will examine California at the county scale due to the large agricultural population in California and the extreme wildfire PM2.5 pollution. I will use the social explorer census data (https://www.socialexplorer.com/) which has averaged daily PM2.5 concentrations at the county level in California. I will use the National Agricultural Statistics Service 2020 farm labor data to estimate the agricultural population at a county level in California (https://www.nass.usda.gov/Statistics_by_State/California/index.php). 
#Flow Chart is emailed
#CONCLUSION: I hope to gain knowledge on which county agricultural worker populations in California are exposed to PM2.5 the most. From this knowledge, I will be able to advocate for more protective policies for agricultural workers in that county. I can do this by sharing my research with CALOSHA which is the supervising authority for these agricultural worker policies. 
